WHATS NEW IN VERSION 4.0
------------------------

To mark the version 4.0 milestone of the Universe Bios I have given it a slight facelift.
Some menu layouts are changed and colors used on the splash screen and default colors for the
in game menu have changed. This is done to try and replicate the gold coloring on the AES and
Joystick shells. You still have the ability to customise colors of the ingame menu if you wish.


Additions


  PICKnMIX MVS/AES (requires the correct 161-in-1 multicart).

    This feature will use the many games on the multicart to turn the system into the ultimate
    multislot. It may also work on MVS multislot systems but please insure all other cart slots
    are empty. The only hacked version of a game used from the 161-in-1 is SNK vs CAPCOM Plus.

    See www.universebios.com/picknmix.html for more information and how to use.

    A special thanks to 'ack' for exstensive bug reporting and testing on multislot hardware,
    also 'miisalo' and 'RockstarRunner' for MVS and AES testing. 

    PICKnMIX IS A TOTALLY UNSOPPORTED FEATURE given the nature of the multicarts.


  NeoSD related (v1.06 or later firmware required).

    The following two additions require the ROM 'sfix.sfix' to be placed into the root directory
    of the NeoSD's SD card. These fixes are not possible without a NeoSD.

      On AES hardware, when in arcade mode, the 'how to play' screens of NAM-1975, Baseball
      Stars Professional and Mahjong Kyo Retsuden will have correct graphics. 

      On AES hardware, when in USA arcade mode, the classic 'winners don't use drugs' screen
      will have correct graphics in all games apart from Garou, Matrimelee, Metal Slug 3,
      Metal slug 4, SNK vs Capcom, The King of Fighters 2000 and The King of Fighters 2003.

    Added a NeoSD color theme for the ingame menu (choose bank '03' in the menu color changer).


  Added new option to disable the daily, weekly and monthly hiscore reset to MVS backupRAM.

    This option is enabled by default (Universe Bios general settings) but can be switched off
    if you want hiscores to clear as game maker intended. The following games are affected;

      Aggrs of Dark Kombat  Ninja Combat             Trash Rally
      Art od Fighting       Ninja Commando           Twinkle Star Sprites
      Art of fighting 2     Over Top                 Wind Jammers 
      Art of Fighting 3     Quiz King of Fighters    World Hereos
      Blues Journey         Spin Masters             World Hereos 2
      Crossed Swords 2      Sonic Wings 3            World Hereos 2 Jet
      Ghost Pilots          King of Fighters 2001    World Hereos Perfect
      Magician Lord         King of Fighters 2002    Zintrick

    Due to the change around of some options to make this possible I advise MVS users check
    the options in the Universe Bios 'general settings' to confirm they are set as intended. 


  In a games softDIP settings (testmode), pressing 1UP start will reset the DIPs to default.
  Added English translations for Japanese games that had Japanese only SoftDIP settings.
  The Universe bios can now detect a 18Mhz overclock (hopefully).
  Added 'Fast Verify' support to PC-2-NEO (USB only).


Changes

  Changed splash screen and main menu colors, NeoGeo logo is now Gold.
  Changed the default colors of the ingame menu. You can still choose old colors and edit colors
    if required by using the ingame menu color changer.
  Made the In Game Menu and Main Menu more responsive to joystick and button input.
  There are now five colors you can adjust on the ingame menu color changer.
  Optimised Code that applies game cheats to memory.
  Made testmode entry graphically cleaner (less glitching).
  Made the cabinet softDIP 'Game Select' default to 'Free' instead of 'Only when credited'.
  Now says 'NGH' instead of 'ID' in the game cart crc check.
  Improved the 'no cheats in database' message.
  The main memory viewer (testmode, exception error, hardware error) should now open on the
    first slot with a game (multislot hardware).
  Improved the MVS cart version of kof2001 when in console mode. The games menu should no longer
    glitch from time to time. Also removed the vertical borders on the options screen.


Fixes (some of these very minor)

  Fixed an issue introduced in Unibios v3.1 which caused any set softDIPs to reset after using
    the soft reboot option on AES haedware.
  Fixed ingame menu colors saved to memory card from getting corrupted.
  Fixed AES version of Metal Slug 3 showing the red warning screen when run in Arcade mode.
  Fixed 'AOF3' from showing the console mode menu when in arcade mode on AES hardware.
  Fixed V-Liner crashing when the coin entered or select pressed.
  Fixed overclock info sometimes incorrectly showing after exiting softDIPs (after soft reset).
  Fixed possible graphic corruption in the testmode main menu if the calendar chip is faulty.
  Fixed red screen flash when bios draws 'how to play' in early games (issue in original bios).
  Fixed Top Players Golf from allowing debug DIP editing (game does not have any).
  Fixed minor graphical glitch entering the ingame menu color changer.
  Fixed missing values in patch and debug dips editing if game is an original MVS KOF2003.
  Fixed glitching on cart check entry if game King of Fighters 2003.
  Fixed glitching when exiting ingame menu if game King of Fighters 2003. 
  Fixed Splash screen and menues if game is MVS version of kof2003 on AES hardware.
  Fixed Splash screen and menues if game is kof 10th anni extra plus on AES hardware.
  Fixed font in jukebox and cart check if game is MVS version of kof2003 MVS hardware.
  Fixed font in jukebox and cart check if game is kof 10th anni extra plus on MVS hardware.
  Fixed 'King of Gladiator' hack throwing a warning screen when running in arcade mode on AES.	 

  Stopped language softDIP showing when in Japan region for games SamSho 4, 5 and 5 Special.
  Stopped Street Hoop's 'team select' softDIP showing when in Japan region.
  Stopped gfx curruption on splash screen (at power on) when the 161-in-1 multicart used. 
  Hopefully fixed corruption exiting the ingame menu on a 18Mhz overclocked MVS/AES. 
  Hopefully fixed corruption in the General settings Menu on a 18Mhz overclocked MVS/AES. 


Hiscore saving (memory card)

  Added HS saving support for Football Frenzy.
  Added HS saving support for Goal! Goal! Goal!
  Added HS saving support for Stakes Winner.
  Added HS saving support for Stakes Winner 2.
  Added HS saving support for Real Bout Fatal Fury (Korean).
  Fixed Neo Bomberman hiscore saving (old HS save will need deleting).
  Fixed Quiz Diasousa Sen so hiscore displayed during game at top is now correct.
  Fixed Puzzle Bobble so it now shows correct hiscore table during first attract mode cycle.
  Fixed Puzzle Bobble 2 not saving the last part of the HS table.


Cheats

  Renamed all 'AES Infin Credits' cheats to 'Infin AES Continue'.
  Korean games now show correct game in the cheat menu (if different than English names).
  Corrected Strikers 1945 Plus game name in the cheat menu.
  Added Real Bout Fatal Fury (Korean) cheats.
  Added Infinite AES Continue cheats to Blues Journey.
  Top Hunter cheats improoved. They now work on all worlds. Also, keeping D pressed will
    disable the gun and ammo cheats (while D pressed) for that player.
  Renamed all 'Always Score 00' cheats in football games to 'Always No Score'. 
  Knights Chance now reconigsed by the in game menu (no cheats though).
  Other minor cheat naming issues here and there.
  Added cheats for Older Power Spikes II (only 'Infinite Iime' cheat atm).


CRC database


  Added older Power Spikes II CRC (MVS, CRC reported for RAM region - 0x8FACDE4C)
    Not currently in MAME, Japanese region game name is 'Super Volley 94'.

  Added alternate Metal SLug 3 CRC (0x9763419E).
  Added alternate V-Liner CRC (V0.7E 0x49A94DB5).
  Added alternate V-Liner CRC (V0.53 0xE263DCE8).
  Added alternate V-Liner CRC (v0.7A 0x052F93ED).
  Added alternate Garou CRC (AES).
  Added alternate Pochi and Nyaa CRC.
  Added Last Resort prototype CRC.
  Added alternate Burning Fight prototype CRC.
  Added alternate King of the Monsters 2 CRC.
  Added Real Bout Fatal Fury (Korean) CRC.
  Added alternate Blues Journey CRC.
  Added alternate Samurai Shodown V CRC.
  Added alternate World Heroes 2 CRC.
  Added alternate Sengoku 3 CRC.
  Knights Chance is now reconigsed by the CRC checker (reported as custom).



---------------------------------------------------------------------



WHATS NEW IN VERSION 3.3
------------------------

Additions / Changes


  Added ability to display the crosshatch and color bar screens on AES hardware. Hold BCD
    during the unibios splash screen and choose option 1. To cycle between the crosshatch
    and color bar screen press 1up start.

  The ingame menu patch screen now shows you the value at the patch address before and after
    it's patched.

  The Universe bios can now detect a 16Mhz overclock. When an overclock is active it will
    be reported on the main unibios menu screen.

  The ability to use buttons 'A' and 'B' as multislot 'game select' buttons during attract
    mode or on the games title page. The Universe Bios option 'Enable Cabinet Fixes' must
    be enabled to use this new feature. Big thanks to kuze for the help testing this.

  PC2NEO (USB version only) updated to work with version 3.4 of PC2NEO firmware or later,
    only standard transfer mode is supported. 08bit upload and download also now supported
    to allow easy for memory card loading and saving.

Changes

  The Universe Bios splash screen no longer draws with the older NG:DEV games on AES hardware.
  The default in game menu color has changed (you can still change it back to the old colors).
  Changed some of the internal ingame color pallettes.
  Made the crosshatch screen border red to match red used in other tests.
  Added small delay before reading unibios settings from the memory card (AES only).
  Renamed the 'Enable 1Up Coin Move' setting to 'Enable Cabinet Fixes'. This feature works
    still works in the same way but has expanded functionality as explained above.

Improvements

  The Ironclad incorrect color brightness bug/protection will not happen when in Euro region.
  The calender hardware test can no longer get stuck in an infinate loop. This was an infamous
    situation that happens on the original neo geo bios.

  If Hiscore saving (to memory card) gets disabled on multislot hardware due to cheats or
    debugDIPs, it will now re-enable on game change.

  Small Improvements in the memory card manager (text layouts).
  Less chance of pixel glitching on ingame menu exit back to game.
  Formatting a memory card on AES no longer clears any stored color settings (for ingame menu).
  The boot time memory card check no longer clears any stored color settings used by the
    ingame menu. This test is only done if the memory card is not formatted.

  The BackupRAM memory test now checks the first 0x10 bytes.
  The boot time memory card check now tests the first 0x04 bytes.

Fixes

  Fixed long standing bug in games KOF98, BREAKREV, NEOCUP98 and RBFF2 where inserting a
    coin on the "Winners Don't Use Drugs" screen caused the 8x8 layer to corrupt or resets
    on multislot hardware. This happened with the original USA bios also. Big thanks to
    kuze for the help testing this fix.

  Fixed DIP hilighting (shows if an active cheat is patching the DebugDIPs location),
    this was kind of broke in v3.2.

  Fixed rare instance where going in and out of the DebugDIPs screen could currupt a games
    hiscore table if the game did not support DebugDIPs.

  Fixed missing title screen in 'The Super Spy'.
  Fixed minor color glitch on active cheat 'X' when entering cheat menu.
  Fixed pixel glitches on startup just before the splash screen draws.
  Fixed pixel glitches entering the ingame color changer page.
  Fixed pixel glitches on the ingame color changer page.
  Fixed rare glitching on in game menu memory viewer page.
  Fixed rare glitching on in game menu video viewer page.
  Lessened glitching in various places through test mode.
  Metal Slug 2 Turbo (hack) support added for cheats and hiscore saving.

Cheats / CRC Database

  Added cheats for Crossed Swords 2.
  Added new cheats added for Neo Bomberman (plus fixed existing).
  Added cheats for hidden characters in Zintrick.
  Added new cheats for Iron Clad.
  Added Infinite Magic cheats to Kabuki Klash.
  Added better cheats for Stakes Winner.
  Added better cheats for Stakes Winner 2.
  Added 'Show SP commands OSD' cheat for Samurai Shodown 4
  Fixed Rage of the Dragons 'Infinate Time' cheat to work with home cart
  Fixed Ninja Combat 'Max Power' cheat typo.
  Fixed 3 Count Bout 'Infinite Energy' cheats to no longer be buggy.
  Fixed Fatal Fury 3 'PL2 Infin Credits' cheat.

  Added Crossed Swords 2 to the crc database.
  Added Rage of the Dragons (home cart) to the crc database.
  Added New Fight Fever version to the crc database.
  Added Metal Slug 2 turbo (hack) to the crc database.


---------------------------------------------------------------------



WHATS NEW IN VERSION 3.2
------------------------

Additions / Changes


  New Controller support
  ----------------------

    Added full four player support to the unibios if relevent hardware detected.
    This allows Kizuna to be played in 4 player mode without requiring cheats.
    HARDDIP 2 must be 'ON' when using MVS hardware, not required for AES.

    The AES controller test (2up ABCD) is no longer accessable from MVS hardware
    due to lack of exit option, use the hardware test (test mode) instead.

    Added a four player controller test which will automatically show in the
    standard '2up ABCD' controller test if the four player hardware is detected.

    Added a Mahjong controller test which will automatically show in the standard
    controller test if a mahjong controller is detected. Press ABCDE on the
    mahjong controller to enter test. This code works on either joy1 and joy2.


  MVS test mode improovments
  --------------------------

    HardDIP 3 (use mahjong controller) now shows on HardDIP screen.
    Improoved visibility of active DIPs in the HardDIP screen.
    4UP controller I/O test added if adapter detected and HardDIP 2 on.
    Mahjong controller I/O test added in test mode if HardDIP 3 on.
    Improoved I/O test layout and visibility.

    The memory card check in the test mode hardware test does not delete data from cards
      up to 16kb in size. This was also in 3.1 also but forgot to list it in whats new.
    Fixed crash during the memory card test if the game in system is either Puzzle
      Bobble or Puzzle Bobble 2.

    Fixed rare curruption issue when drawing the red cursor in main menu.


  Hiscore saving changes and fixes
  --------------------------------

    Hiscore loading from memory card now works for all games in a multislot system.

    Hiscore saving now supported in the following games;
      Pop n Bounce, Spin Master, Quiz King of Fighters, Zupapa, Zintrick,
      The Irritating Maze, Chibi Marukochan Deluxe Quiz, Soccer Brawl,
      Legend of Success Joe, Temco World Soccer.

   Fixed Hiscores (shown during gameplay) in the following games;
     Viewpoint, Fight Fever, Mutation Nation, Ninja Combat.
       (You must also delete any v3.1 created H.S. saves for the following)
     Art of Fighting, Art of Fighting 2, Ghost Pilots.

   Fixed Hiscore saving in KOF2001 (delete v3.1 created HS save).
   Fixed Hiscore saving in Neo Drift Out (delete v3.1 created HS save). 

Changes

  Changed the way DebugDIPs are handled.
    On multislot hardware DebugDIPs are now cleared on gamechange (DEV mode setting is remembered).
    DebugDIP changing stopped for games known not to use them (solves hiscore curruption).

  Changed the way hardware errors are displayed on screen.

  Added ability to access PC-2-NEO from the ingame menu (move over 'soft reboot system'
    and move right.

  Changed the AES hardware test button code to B+C+D. Also added a message before the
    test starts so there is no confusion wether the test is running or not.

  Changed the way overclock patches work on the 'Max 330 Mega' spinning splash logo.
  Added overclock patches to stop curruption on the 'Giga Power' spinning splash logo.
    Only exception is Real Bout Fatal Fury 2 which cannot be patched at this time.

  On a multislot system in console mode you will no longer jump to the next game after
    game over. Some games do not follow the rule, Shock Troopers 2 and Magical Drop 3
    will jump to the next game regardless due to the way they are programmed.

  Stopped 'Your card is still inserted' message when in console mode on MVS hardware
    if using a memory card.
  Stopped 'Your card is still inserted' message when in arcade mode on MVS hardware
    if using a memory card with Hiscore saving enabled.

  Stopped splash screen and main menu curruption from potential new NG:DEV.TEAM games.

  Tweeked Jukebox init, now less chance of an 'Error starting sound' message.

  Compressed the memory footprint in the bios of the cart crc database.

  Added The King of Fighters '97 Oroshi Plus 2003 the the crc database.

Fixes

  Fixed '1UP coin move' operation which was broke in v3.0 / v3.1. Option allows coin
    in chute one to credit as coin in shoot two if 2up start held and region is USA.

  Fixed region/mode saving when using a 16bit memorycard on AES hardware.
  Fixed ingame menu color saving when using a 16bit memorycard on AES hardware.
  Fixed disable splash screen not working when using 16bit memorycard on AES hardware.

  Fixed lockup on AES SoftDIP page if game is Korean version of AOF3.
  Stopped 'NEXT PAGE' showing in the AES SoftDIP settings page for some games.
  Games with no softDIP handled better on AES SoftDIP page (vliner/jockeygp).

  Fixed crosshatch screen not showing after a hardware error if no cart inserted.

  Fixed 2020 Super Baseball cheats to work in all versions and regions.
  Fixed AOF3 cheats which would sometimes stop working.
  Fixed 'Infinite' spelling in the cheat menu (typo in version 3.1).
  Fixed KOF94 game title not showing in the cheat menu.


---------------------------------------------------------------------



WHATS NEW IN VERSION 3.1
------------------------

Additions / Changes

  Hiscore saving to memory card!!!
  --------------------------------

    Big thanks to smkdan for allowing the use of his code here. This is not fully
    tested and there could very well be problems. To this end and to allow the greatest
    testing possible this feature is also included in the free 3.0 version of the unibios.
    This should work in both MVS and AES mode but given scores are saved to backupRAM on 
    MVS there could be extra problems. If this is the case only use the feature on AES
    hardware. There may also be issues with multigame bootleg carts.

    To enable, format the card using the unibios (must be formatted with unibios). Then set
    the last character of the cards username to '!'.

    To stop filling the hiscore tables with scores obtained using cheats, debug DIPs or patches
    hiscore saving will be disabled if these features are used until the system is reset.

    NOTES.
    It may not work with all games so please report issues you have.

    Puzzle Bobble 
      In AES mode hiscores are not loaded until the 2nd time the score table draws.


  PC-2-NEO Improvements
  ---------------------

    U.S.B. support is added and information will be made available in due course on how
    to build the hardware. Speeds to expect are 155k/sec upload and 32k/sec download.
    This spec will be ported to the NeoGeo CD system making it possible to upload
    entire homebrew/small games faster than loading from the CD.
  	
    Parallel port upload and download speeds improved to around 2.5k/sec. The new PC
    client is required which is available on the homepage.


  Added ability to disable the splash screen on AES providing a memory card is present. To
    use format the card using the unibios (must be formatted with unibios). Then set
    the second from last character of the cards username to '!'.

  Stopped error message when changing games with multigame bootleg carts.

  Added the screensaver to the jukebox.

  Removed Crossed Swords protection that cleared the bios System and Region settings.
    This protection could be used in other games also.

  Removed SS4 Korean backupRAM protection.

  Removed RBFFS Korean backupRAM protection.

Fixes

  Fixed currupted graphics on splash screen/menu when playing NgDevTeam games (thanks Timm).
  Fixed memory card manager username input curruption if the sysyem is overclocked to 16Mhz. 
  Fixed bstars going funny after exiting ingame menu sometimes.
  Fixed NAM1975 Unlimited Lives cheat so you don't start off of the screen after dying
  Fixed SamSho2 inf energy cheats to not cause infinate bonus count after round win.
  Fixed MSlug3 save 15 prisioners cheats to not cause game freeze on mission completion.
  Fixed Sengoku permanent weapon cheats so you can pick up and change weapons when active.
  Fixed Bang Bang Busters debug dips currupting the Hiscore table (no debug dips).

Cheats / CRC Database

  Added cheats for SS4 Korean into database.
  Added cheats for Quiz Daisousa Sen Korean into database.
  Added cheats for RBFFS Korean into database.
  Added infinate Exceed cheats to SVC.
  Added infinate Quota cheats to magdrop 2.
  Added infinate Quota cheats to magdrop 3.
  Added some new cheats to bstars.
  Added some new cheats to bstars2.
  Added cheats for Bang Bang Busters.

  Added Treasure of the Caribbean crc into database.
  Added Bang Bang Busters crc into database.
  Added Quiz Daisousa Sen Korean crc into database.
  Added Quiz King of Fighter Korean crc into database.
  Added RBFFS Korean crc into database.
  Added SS4 Korean crc into database.
  Added new SS2 Korean crc into database.
  Added new Bstars crc into database.
  Added Ironclad crc into database.
  Added new Jockey GP crc into database.
  Added new Alpha Mission II crc into database.
  Added new Burning Fight crc into database.
  Added new Iron clad crc into database.
  Added new King of the Monsters 2 crc into database.

  Updated Jyanshin Densetsu crc in database. 


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 3.0
------------------------

Additions / Changes

  PC-2-NEO
  --------
    This new feature gives the ability to transfer data to and from a NeoGeo via a cable
    connected to a PC. It should be considered experimental at this point but can be
    accessed from the main unibios menu. See the universebios homepage for more
    information and how to build the needed cable. 

  Added disable splash screen option back into general bios settings.

  If a game is not in the socket on AES hardware you will see a 'white' blank screen at
    power on. I changed this to save confusion over some people thinking the old blue
    color was the result of a hardware check. The Unibios does not do a hardware
    check in the same way, you must have a game in the socket and use the button
    code at power on.

  Changed the way region is set up on MVS hardware so there is more chance of a system
    with bad BackupRAM booting correctly.

  Made code changes to help stop unibios ASCII curruption when the system is
    overclocked (untested).

  Changed code so the NeoGeo spinning logo (older games only) draws correctly when a
    system is overclocked (untested).

  Button C is now used to exit the unibios main menu.

Fixes

  Fixed a problem that could cause some games to have glitches after swapping games on
    multislot hardware when in console mode.

  Fixed garbled music with Metal Slug 4 in the jukebox from power on.

Cheats / CRC Database

  New cheats added here and there.
  Fixed KOF96 boss cheat so numbers no longer appear above the power bars.
  Added another Real Bout Fatal Fury CRC.
  Added another Soccer Brawl CRC.
  Added another World Heroes CRC.
  Added another Ghost Pilots CRC.
  Added Nightmare in the Dark bootleg CRC.
  Fixed a CRC issue with Waku Waku 7.


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 2.3
------------------------

Additions / Changes

  Hilighting 'Soft Reset' in the ingame menu will now give you new options when moving the
    1up joystick left and right. New options are;

     - Main Memory Viewer
     - Video RAM Viewer
     - Menu Color Changer

  The screen will now blank out if the ingame menu is left alone on its main menu page (after
    about 1 minute). Simply move or press any 1Up control to restore the screen. This new
    option helps prevent monitor burnin if you use the ingame menu to pause your games.
  Removed the trackball cheat from 'The Irritating Maze', instead trackball support is
    always enabled unless the joystick cheat is used.

Fixes

  Fixed a minor ingame menu color issue with 'Real Bout Fatal Fury'.
  Fixed music offset so 'GhostLop' music can now be heard in the jukebox.
  Fixed 'SVC Plus' bootlegs from not allowing character select when in console mode.

Cheats / CRC Database

  Added crc info for 'Metal Slug 6 hack'.
  Added crc info for the AES version of 'Metal Slug 4'.
  Added crc info for 'King of Fighters 2002 Magic Plus (hack)'.
  Added crc info for 'Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon Super Plus (hack)'.
  Added cheats to give 1000 credits in 'Jockey GP'.
  Added cheats to give 1000 credits in 'V-Liner'.
  Added cheats to 'Metal Slug 6 hack'.
  Added cheats to play as Rugal in 'KOF 94'.
  Added cheats to play as Amakusa in 'Samurai Shodown'.
  Added cheats to unlock bosses in 'Art of Fighting'.
  Added cheats to unlock bosses in 'Bang Bead' plus more.
  Added cheats to shrink characters in kof96.
  Added cheats to force single color blocks to drop in 'Gururin'.
  Fixed the 'KOF 97' red energy cheat to the correct energy level.
  Updated the 'KOF97' unlock bosscharacters cheat to also allow Orochi.
  Updated the 'Fatal Fury 2' hidden character cheats, hopefully they wont't cause a crash
    now after winning a match. There will still be problems on the continue screen.
  Added cheat to allow more than one projectile in 'KOF94' and 'KOF96' though it only
    works well if used with the action speed up cheat.
  Added Cheat / CRC support for the following Korean releases.
    - Art of Fighting 3: The Path of the Warrior 
    - Real Bout Fatal Fury 2: The Newcomers
    - Fighters Swords 
    - The Last Soldier


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 2.2
------------------------

Additions / Changes / Fixes

  The splash screen will no longer shown twice or more (on multislots) after the backup
    memory is reset.
  The memory card format option will no longer wipe the region stored in the memory card
    on AES hardware.
  The arcade protect setting can now have either the testmode button pressed or HardDIP 1
    on (force test mode) to get access back to the button Codes on the splash screen.
  Made visual improvements to the main memory card manager menu.
  Cleaned up screens and messages in the memory card manager, test mode and hardware test.
  Changed the Cheat database storage slightly. It now takes less space in the Bios which
    is good thing as space was beginning to become quite tight.
  Fixed the AES hardware test code (A+B+D) so it also works after the splash screen is drawn. 
  Fixed the hardware error message from disapeering on AES hardware as soon as the hardware
    test button code (A+B+D) was released.

Fixes (game related)

  Fixed the AES version of 'King of Fighters 2003' from crashing after exiting the ingame
    menu (bug introduced in 2.1).
  Fixed 'Andro Dunos' to start attract mode correctly on AES hardware.
  Fixed 'Andro Dunos' 1up not being able to continue on the last credit in a two player
    game in console mode if started with 3 credits each.
  Fixed Fight Fever to work correctly when freeplay is enabled (start was not responding).
  Fixed garbage in 'Alpha Mission II' bonus rate SOFTDip setting on AES hardware.
  Stopped SVC level select showing in a two player game when in arcade mode on AES hardware.

Cheats / CRC Database

  Added cheat so that Irtating Maze is playable with 1up joystick (hold buttons B or C
    for different speeds). This cheat has not yet been tested on real hardware.
  Added cheat allowing boss characters to show in AES mode with 'Art of Fighting 3'.
  Added cheat to enable blood in 'Samurai Shodown 5 Special'.
  Added cheats to play as bosses in 'Voltage Fighter'.
  Added cheats so 1up can play as bosses in 'Fatal Fury 2', (can cause crashes).
  Added cheats and crc info for 'Lansquenet 2004' hack.
  Added cheats and crc info for 'King of Gladiators' hack.
  Added crc info for 'The King of Fighters 2002 Magic Plus II'.
  Added crc info for 'King of Fighters 10th Unique'.
  Fixed the 'Sengoku 3' boss unlock cheat to add bosses into the mini character select
    (happens after continue) if the cheat was enabled after a game had started.
  Fixed incorrectly labeled 2up autofire cheat in 'Metal Slug 2'.


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 2.1
------------------------

Additions

  Added a new MVS general Bios setting 'Enable 1Up Coin Move'. When enabled this setting
    will force a coin entered into a cab with only one coin chute to register on the 2Up
    side as long as the 2Up start button is held down while the coin is entered. The Bios
    should be set to USA region and Arcade mode or VS-Mode must be enabled and supported
    by the game being played for this feature to work.
  Added a new MVS general Bios setting 'Enable Arcade Protect'. This setting is designed
    to allow the Universe Bios to be run easier in an arcade environment. It basically
    protects the Universe Bios settings and operator by doing the following;
     - The Test mode button must also be pressed with the normal button codes to access
       the Main Universe Bios menu, Memory Card Manager, Test Mode or Controller Test.
     - If a game was to crash for any reason the system will reset and start over instead
       of stopping and displaying the error on screen. This is how the normal Bios works.
    When using this new setting one should also disable Input Crossing and the In Game
    Memu to stop other methods of adding credits or cheating.
  Added the ability to fade out music in the Jukebox Player instead of stopping it dead
    (nice if you want to record never ending tracks but it does not work with all games).
  Added an option to soft reset the system from the crosshatch screen.
  Added an option to get to the memory viewer from the crosshatch screen, this can be
    helpfull in tracking hardware faults if you only get the cross hatch from power on.
  Added the ability to change game SLOT in the memory viewer (use select buttons). 
  Pressing only button A on the splash screen will make it disappear faster.

Speedups

  Speeded up the way cheats are patched into memory a little (unlooped code).
  Speeded up coin to select button swapping (code was running twice per frame).
  Speeded up the ingame menu check by putting some code in place of a waitloop.

Changes

  Removed the welcome message the first time the bios is run on MVS hardware. Instead it
    will default to Euro Arcade mode and the BootUp HW Test will also be disabled.
  The Universe Bios will now force a backup RAM test when its first run in a new system.
  Removed the option to disable the splash screen (MVS hardware only).


Fixes

  Fixed possible gfx garbage behind the SNK logo at the bottom of screen in test mode.
  Fixed possible bug that could cause (under certern situation) the buttons not to respond
    after an exception error on AES hardware only.
  Fixed a NeoGeo logo curruption issue in the Universe Bios menus if you exited the slot
    selection screen without choosing a slot first (affected 2SLOT hardware only).
  Fixed the kof2003 official MVS cart not changing languages correctly in arcade mode. The
    problem was caused by SNK/Playmore locking the language to English on English carts.
  Fixed Matrimelee not changing language when changing region on MVS hardware in arcade mode.
  Fixed Metal Slug 4 music in the jukebox player as it played distorted if you used the
    jukebox before allowing the game to play.
  Fixed the SoftDIPs in Samurai Shodown 4 through Samurai Shodown 5 Special so when in
    Japan region the language setting shows 'Japanese' instead of 'English'.
  Fixed the SoftDIPs in Baseball Stars Pro when in USA region (demo sound DIP placement).
  Fixed a SoftDIP problem that could cause DIP settings to appear wrong in some games after
    changing regions (affected games that have a different ammount of DIPs per region).
  Fixed a minor ingame menu color problem in King of Fighters 2003 on MVS hardware.
  Fixed the exception error and memory viewer screens so that text is now readable
    in King of Fighters 2003 on MVS hardware.
  Fixed Aero Fighters 3 to stop showing level select when in arcade mode on AES hardware.
  Fixed King of Fighters 2001 MVS version console mode menu select pointers.
  Fixed King of Fighters 2001 MVS version console mode menu colors from going wrong when  
    starting a 2 player game (single all and pratice text).
  Fixed the SoftDIPs to work when playing the newer (less censored) version of Samurai
    Shodown 5 Special on AES hardware in arcade mode.
 
Cheats

  Made AES Samurai Shodown 5 Special Fatal unlock and sound fix one cheat.
  Added Shrink Mode cheat to Samurai Shodown 5 Special.
  Added cheats to enable blood in King of Fighters 97, 98 and 99.
  Added cheats to enable blood in Samurai Shodown 1, 2 and 3.
  Added cheats to enable blood in Ganryu.
  Added cheats to Samurai Shodown 4 to play as Zankuro.
  Added cheats to Samurai Shodown 5 to play as Yumeji or Sankuro.
  Added cheats to Kabuki klash to play as bosses.
  Added cheats to Rage of Dragons to play as Abobo and Johann.
  Added cheats to Sonic Wings 3 to play as Red Rabbit or Diabloon.
  Added a secret character cheat to World Heroes Perfect.
  Added a secret character cheat to Magical Drop 2 and 3.
  Added a secret character cheat to The Last Blade.
  Added a secret character cheats to The Last Blade 2.
  Added auto fire cheats to all games in the Metal Slug Series.
  Added auto fire cheats to Sonic Wings 2 and 3.
  Added auto fire cheats to Ghost Pilots.
  Added auto fire cheats to Zed Blade.
  Added Infinite Time cheats for 2Up, 3Up and 4UP in League bowling.
  Added cheats for King of Fighters Special Edition 2004 hack.
  Added cheats for King of Fighters 10th Anniversary hack.
  Fixed cheats to show in the korean version of Samurai Shodown 2.
  Fixed boss cheat to work in the korean version of King of Fighters 1999.
  Fixed cheats in the alt version of Magician Lord.
  Fixed AES infinate credit cheats in Sonic Wings 2 and 3.
  Fixed some minor spelling mistakes in the cheat engine.

CRC additions

  King of Fighters Special Edition 2004 hack.
  King of Fighters 10th Anniversary hack.
  King of Fighters 2003 Ultra Plus bootleg.
  King of Fighters 1999 (korean MVS version).
  King of Fighters 2002 Plus (alt bootleg).
  Samurai Shodown 2 (korean MVS version).
  Samurai Shodown 5 Special MVS version.
  Samurai Shodown 5 Special newer AES version.
  V-Liner alt set.


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 2.0
------------------------

IMPORTANT.

  This release will totally reset the MVS backup memory. This means UNIVERSE BIOS settings,
  SoftDIPs, and game settings will be lost. This will also happen when upgrading from a
  previous version. You will need to enter initial soft dip settings again. Multislot users
  will need to set the 'game select' softDIP to free if you wish to allow game swapping
  before entering credits. Regions stored on memory cards (AES users) will also be lost
  until set up again but saved game data will not be lost.

Samurai Shodown 5 Special related stuff.

  Removed the protection stoping the game from running in Arcade mode on AES hardware.
  Added a cheat to unlock fatalities which were censored out of the AES original cart.
  Added a cheat to fix the round win sounds that were broke in the AES original cart.
  Added some game cheats to the database for the game.
  Added CRC info into the CRC database (for the original AES cart only so far).
  Fixed the NeoGeo logo in the splash screen when this game used (it was not centered).
  Fixed sound in the Jukebox if accessed from system power on.

Changes

  Added code to fully reset backup RAM when a MVS system is run for the first time with the
    UNIVERSE BIOS installed. This is to ensure correct SoftDIP compatability is maintained.
  Added A new Patch Memory option to the In game menu.
  Exiting the In game menu is now done by pressing button C.
  Added a reboot option from the exception error screen.
  Improved the splash screen (this could still be subject to change).
  Improved the multislot only game selecting screen (shows before jukebox and CRC check).
  Improved the Jukebox sound initilize routine. This results in the 'error starting sound'
    error showing less when entering the jukebox, espicially with some older games.
  Disabling the startup hardware test now also skips the callender test.
  You will now see a Blue sreen on AES hardware if you power on the unit with no game in.
  Removed the 'game select' softdip remembering code added in v1.3 because it never worked.

Fixes

  Fixed an Addres Error that only affected SLOT2 hardware happening after the unibios splash
    screen if the 'bootup HW test' was disabled from the unibios general settings.
  Fixed the force AES option (shows when system has a hardware fault) so it now sets up a
    default Region of 'Europe', mode of 'Console' and also sets up the default soft dips.
  Fixed the rogue green pixel strips that appeared on screen momentarily during the fade
    in and out of the splash screen (mainly visable on AES hardware only).
  Fixed the rogue pixel strips that could sometimes appear on screen momentarily during
    entering and exiting the in game menu (this problem only happened sometimes).
  Fixed a small issue that could make some softdips become messed on multislot hardware
    for games not in slot1 (mslug3 and kof2001 for example).
  Fixed a possible language soft dip display issue with Rage of the Dragons.
  Fixed an issue that affected soft dips in 'Street Hoop' when in Japan region. While its
    not perfect its still far better than it was (dips are now correctly named).
  Fixed an issue that affected soft dips in 'Samurai Shodown 4' & 'Samurai Shodown 5' when
    in Japan region (in relation to the blood setting). While not perfect you can now turn
    on Blood far easier than before.
  Fixed a issue that caused WindJammers to crash after the bonus bowling level.
  Fixed the MVS version of kof2001 to romove the small green line that appeared across the
    screen in console mode, problem produced from the menu color fixes added in v1.3.
  Fixed the MVS version of kof2003 so that when in the cheat database the ammount of cheats
    is now displayed instead of a blank space.

Cheats and CRC

  Added cheat to enable '4way battle mode' in Kizuna Encounter.
  Added a cheat to play as Zankuro in samurai shodown 3.
  Fixed Rage of the Dragons 1up infinite energy cheat from locking up the game at the
    end of a round if game timer runs down to zero.
  Added a cheat to force Japanese language in kof2003 as there is a problem with the
    game not setting a Japan language on multislot hardware when in Japan region.
  Added crc for a new found 2020 super baseball version.


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 1.3
------------------------

AES support (nuff said).

  some AES notes.....

  Region settings are saved to the memory card, however if no card is available on
    power up the system will default to EURO / CONSOLE operation.
  To do a hardware check hold buttons A+B+D during power up this will keep the system
    looping through a hardware check until all buttons are released.
  When in ARCADE mode devmode is enabled and cannot be disabled.
  There is no attract mode sound for some games in MVS mode. This is beacuse they
    read the demo sound soft dip from backupram (which the aes dosnt have)
    instead of the adjescent RAM location (this problem exists on the DEBUG bios also).
  Some early games (nam75 for example) will have currupted 'how to play' screens.
    This is because the AES does not have the needed character font the MVS has.
  When in USA mode some games will have a currupted 'winners dont use drugs' screen.
    This is because the AES does not have the needed character font the MVS has.
  The Test Mode menu is not availabe for use.

Additions

  The NeoGeo/ProGear logo now displays only once at the beginning when in console mode
    to match bios on AES.
  New entry method to access the in game menu, START+A+B+C. Old access methods are
    still usable.
  Ability to abort the game cart crc check while its calculating. 
  Ability to exit from slot selection screen (multislot hardware only).
  Enabled the AES controller test, access via holding player 2 A+B+C+D during power on or
    splash screen.
  68000 exception handling. Instead of games reseting they will stop and the current 68000
    status will be displayed.
  Simple memory/vram viewer that can be accesses from the hardware error screen.

Changes

  Exiting the jukebox or crc check on multislot HW now restores the initially used font.
  Added a shadow to bring out the NeoGeo logo in the splash screen and main menu.
  Made the Red color used in the Splash Screen and main menu a little darker.
  Improved the hardware check so you only see a couple of flashes on screen at power on
    instead of lots of green garbage.
  Improved the hardware error screens to make them look nicer but I'm sure you will never
    want to see these.
  Changed the test mode hardware test so that the test memory card section no longer looses
    any data on the card. This problem affected the original BIOS also.
  Changed some very bad English in the card manager including one point where the word 'no'
    should actually be 'yes' when it comes to confirming data delete. This problem affected
    the original BIOS also.

Fixes

  Fixed an issue that caused some hardware error messages appear darker or distorted.
  Fixed the 'gameselect' option being lost the first time the UNIVERSE BIOS is used on
    multislot hardware.
  Fixed button (A) not responding when trying to continue from failed HW check when using
    a joypad.
  Fixed credits from 2nd coin shoot not showing but still registering in VS-MODE when the
    game dosent support it.
  Fixed the select buttons not registering in the testmode input test when in console mode.
  Fixed testmode input test so that the input crossing feature does not take effect while
    testing buttons. 
  Fixed a problem in the memory card manager that stoped the letter 'o' visually showing when
    selecting a card name. This problem affected the original BIOS also.
  Fixed a clicking sound that sometimes happened during boot if the hardware check was disabled.
  Fixed a soft dip issue that could cause confusion (because we force softdips to display in
    English). Basically in some games the language softdip setting is different depending on
    region. For example the kof games default language now reads 'Japanese' instead of 'English'
    when in Japanese mode. There could be issues like this in other games too, if you find any
    please let me know.

Game Fixes

  Fixed Sengoku 3 language not changing when swapping region in arcade mode.
  Fixed many menu problems in the official kof2001 mvs cart when in console
    mode (there are still problems though). 
  Fixed a Matrimelee font problem in menus on multislot hardware and in the
    jukebox / crc check on slot1 hardware.
  Fixed Pochi and Nyaa sound distortion in the jukebox if the game is not
    allowed to run first.
  Fixed missing font in crc check, jukebox, and ingame menu for KOF2003.

New and Updated Cheats

  SNK vs Capcom
  Samurai Shodown 5
  Metal Slug 5
  King of Fighters 2003
  Pochi and Nyaa
  Zintrick
  Samurai Shodown 2

New original/hacked game CRC's to database

  SNK vs Capcom
  SNK vs Capcom (bootleg cart)
  Samurai Shodown 5
  Metal Slug 5 (MVS and AES)
  Pochi and Nyaa
  King of Fighters 1997 Plus
  King of Fighters 2001 (alternate set)
  King of Fighters 2002 Plus
  Metal slug 4 Plus
  Metal slug 5 Plus
  SNK Vs Capcom Plus
  SNK Vs Capcom Super Plus
  King of Fighters 2003 (MVS and AES)
  King of Fighters 2003 (bootleg cart)
  Top Hunter: Roddy & Cathy (set 2)


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 1.2
------------------------

Additions

  Added Multislot support to the Jukebox Player and Gamecart CRC check.
  Added the ability to continue on from a hardware error.
  Allowed Test Mode button to give access to TEST mode menu while in console mode.
  Cheats for MATRIMELEE added to the cheats database.

Test mode improvements

  Time added to main test mode menu screen (date format changes from euro to usa region).
  Crosshatch test shrunk to match fullscreen used by most games.
  Full color fade bars in color test (why the original BIOS never did this is beyond me).
  Setting up the code number will now be in English even when set to Japan region.
  Soft DIP settings will always be in English even if set to Japan region. (Soft DIPs
    shown will always be from Euro region, this means some settings will not work unless
    system set to EURO region, like the language soft DIP for example).

Changes

  Disabling the hardware test (general bios settings) now disables the Z80 test also.
  Visually improved the gamecart crc check screen making it better.
  Games that use the protected banking system no longer calculate the crc32 for those
    banks, instead it is indicated that they are custom.
  Doing a 'WORK RAM TEST' (all hard dips on at power on) no longer clears region settings.
  Updated CRC32 database although there could still be errors.

Fixes

  Fixed a lockup if entering the Memory Card Manager or Test Mode from the splash screen
    when running in console mode with hard DIP 8 (stop) on.
  Fixed 'unlock Kyo & Iori' kof99 cheat (no longer jumps to character select after win).
  Fixed distorted music in Jukebox Player with games ROTD, KOF2002 and MATRIMELEE.
  Fixed REALBOUT2, KOF98, NEOCUP98 and BREAKREV reset on the 'winners dont use drugs'
    screen on multislot Hardware.


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 1.1
------------------------

Additions

  Added support for the correct USA BIOS coin inputing when in USA arcade mode.
    This allows for seperate coin input for player 1 and 2.
    The ability to use 4 coin inputs (turned on via hard dip 2).
    The ability to start a 1 player game on players 2 side.

  Added support for VS-MODE in Euro and Japan region for games that use it (fighters).
    This mode is enabled by simply turning on hard dip 2, when enabled games use a coin
    inserting like USA as mentioned above. I have also patched test mode so the setting
    shows in the hard dips menu. VS-MODE may do more also ingame but I am not sure.

  Program ROM crc checking
    This option allows you to confirm your program roms are not bad. NOTE, not all crc's
    are yet in the database so many roms may give a '??' or 'NG' error when they are
    correct. If you get either of these messages please email me with the details.

  In game menu system
    Access to debug dips (now removed from the main menu).
    Hardware reset option.

  The debug dip cursor now wraps from left to right / right to left.
  MVS hardware type is now displayed in bottom right corner of the main menu.
  Changed button detection which should make selecting regions on some machines easier.
  When in Euro or Japan mode I have made coin shoot2 '1coin 1credit' by default.

Cheats/Debug DIPs

  Fixed a possible crash/lockup situation when accessing the cheat engine.
  Fixed some typos and incorrect cheat descriptions in the cheats engine.
  Added more cheats to the cheat engine database.
  Cheats that use debug dips now clear the dip/s they set when that cheat is disabled.
    (dips set by cheats show on debug screen by hilighting dip number)
    (dips are not cleared if it is also set in the debug dip settings)
  Blazing star no longer resets when exiting from the in game menu in console mode.
    (The reset was programmed by game design)

Jukebox

  Fixed an issue that could cause an lockup when entering the jukebox.
  Added an error message if for some reason the sound dosent initilize.
  The initial sound used when entering the jukebox will now be a valid one.
  Fixed all games that played double samples at the beginning of tune.
  Fixed a issue that caused sound effects not to play in 'Nightmare in the Dark'.
  Fixed a issue that caused 'Puzzle Bobble 2' music not to play.

Visual

  The splash screen now fades in and out.
  Changed the effect used when deleting menu screens a little.
  Made the in game menus background color a little darker.
  Fixed an issue with font colors when game in slot1 is 'Fatal Fury III'.
  Fixed small red lines in splash screen and main menu when using certain games.
  Fixed NeoGeo logo not showing on splash screen and main menus on 4/6slot hardware.
  Fixed NeoGeo logo on 2slot hardware if NAM1975 or PBOBBLE2 was the first game.

Misc

  Fixed possible crash on 'Winners Dont use Drugs' if debug dips used on a multislot.
  Fixed possible crash when exiting debug dips settings on a multislot system.
  Fixed Hard DIP 8 not forcing pause in console mode.


---------------------------------------------------------------------


WHATS NEW IN VERSION 1.0
------------------------

Initial release